---
title: Launcher
breif: "Simon answers questions about the Hytale launcher, Steam, and the work they've already done!"
date: 2025-11-10
author: alizardguy
layout: newspost.njk
---


Twitter user [@LinkTheGamer_](https://x.com/LinkTheGamer_/status/1988028748835279212) asked Simon "Assuming you can't answer anything like this but gonna ask anyway, is the plan when Hytale comes back to have it be it's own launcher or would you put it on steam?", Simon responded explaining that they intend to start with their own launcher but will look into Steam later if it supports their future ingame modding browser and tools.

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet tw-align-center"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Our own launcher first, investigate Steam later if they can support our future ingame modding browser and tools!<br>We can distribute steam game codes to people who already bought previously on our own store like Path of Exile has done. So no regrets if you buy on our own store…</p>&mdash; Simon (@Simon_Hypixel) <a href="https://twitter.com/Simon_Hypixel/status/1988029750263042069?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">November 10, 2025</a></blockquote> <script async src="/assets/js/twitterpost.js" charset="utf-8"></script> 

[@BlonzoYT](https://x.com/BlonzoYT) responded "It would be amazing if in the future you could add a section where people can safely download mods. Maybe within the launcher itself or on the official website!" which in reply Simon confirmed that as a long term goal.

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet tw-align-center"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Within the game itself is the long term goal</p>&mdash; Simon (@Simon_Hypixel) <a href="https://twitter.com/Simon_Hypixel/status/1988031134111015029?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">November 10, 2025</a></blockquote> <script async src="/assets/js/twitterpost.js" charset="utf-8"></script> 

Simon additionally confirms that despite not having the IP yet, he is working on the backend so Hytale can launch as fast as possible.
<blockquote class="twitter-tweet tw-align-center"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Launcher, website, auth, accounts, payments system, name reservation, etc<br>All ready or almost ready.<br><br>Just need the game.🫡<br>Will let you guys know when it’s done.</p>&mdash; Simon (@Simon_Hypixel) <a href="https://twitter.com/Simon_Hypixel/status/1988032104072982845?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">November 10, 2025</a></blockquote> <script async src="/assets/js/twitterpost.js" charset="utf-8"></script> 

Tldr:
- Hytale will start with it's own launcher
- Hytale *may* come to Steam at a later date
- Simon and team have been getting the backend ready in preparation
- [Simon does not yet have the IP](https://x.com/Simon_Hypixel/status/1988034302299582723)